[AGENTRUN-704] Document log sending (#32080)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/log_collection/agent_checks.md

---

> title: Log Submission From Agent Checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Agent Integration Log Collection
```

further_reading:
- link: "/developers/integrations/agent_integration/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create an Agent-based Integration"
- link: "/logs/log_configuration/processors"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to process your logs"
- link: "/logs/log_configuration/parsing"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about parsing"
- link: "/logs/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to explore your logs"
- link: "https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.send_log"
  tag: "API Reference"

>   text: "AgentCheck.send_log API documentation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  text: "API parameters to send logs"
```

## Prerequisites

- A custom Agent integration or check. See [Create an Agent-based Integration][1] for setup instructions.
- The Datadog Agent installed and running with [log collection enabled][2].

## Configuration

To enable log submission from your custom Agent check, you need to configure log collection in your integration's configuration file.

1. Ensure log collection is enabled globally in the Agent's main configuration file (`datadog.yaml`):
   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

2. Add a `logs` section to your integration's configuration file (for example, `conf.d/my_integration.d/conf.yaml`):
   ```yaml
   init_config:

   instances:
     - <instance_configuration>

   logs:
     - type: integration
       source: <integration_name>
       service: <service_name>
   ```

   Where:
   - `type`: Set to `integration` to indicate logs are collected by an integration
   - `source`: The source of the logs (typically your integration name)
   - `service`: The service name to associate with the logs (this can also be the integration name if nothing else applies)

3. [Restart the Agent][6] if it is running for the configuration changes to take effect.

> Once configured, your integration can use the `send_log` method to submit logs, which will be tagged with the `source` and `service` specified in the configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After it's configured, your integration can use the [`send_log` method][7] to submit logs. These logs are tagged with the `source` and `service` specified in the configuration.
```

## Prerequisites

- A custom Agent integration or check. See [Create an Agent-based Integration][1] for setup instructions.
- The Datadog Agent installed and running with [log collection enabled][2].

## Configuration

To enable log submission from your custom Agent check, you need to configure log collection in your integration's configuration file.

1. Ensure log collection is enabled globally in the Agent's main configuration file (`datadog.yaml`):
   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

2. Add a `logs` section to your integration's configuration file (for example, `conf.d/my_integration.d/conf.yaml`):
   ```yaml
   init_config:

   instances:
     - <instance_configuration>

   logs:
     - type: integration
       source: <integration_name>
       service: <service_name>
   ```

   Where:
   - `type`: Set to `integration` to indicate logs are collected by an integration
   - `source`: The source of the logs (typically your integration name)
   - `service`: The service name to associate with the logs (this can also be the integration name if nothing else applies)

> 3. [Restart the Agent][6] if it is running for the configuration changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Restart the Agent][6] to apply the configuration changes.
```

- **Include timestamps**: Always provide a `timestamp` for accurate log ordering, especially when processing historical data.
- **Tag consistently**: Use the same tagging strategy across logs, metrics, and events from your integration.
- **Use cursors for stateful processing**: When tracking progress through log sources, use cursors to avoid reprocessing data.

## Troubleshooting

If logs are not appearing in Datadog:

1. Verify that log collection is enabled in the Datadog Agent configuration.
2. Check the Agent logs for errors related to log submission.
3. Ensure your `data` dictionary includes at least a `message` key.
4. Run the [Agent's status command][5] to confirm your check is running without errors.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /developers/integrations/agent_integration/
[2]: /agent/logs/?tab=tailfiles#activate-log-collection
[3]: /logs/explorer/
[4]: /logs/log_configuration/processors
[5]: /agent/configuration/agent-commands/?tab=agentv6v7#agent-status-and-information
[6]: /agent/configuration/agent-commands/?tab=agentv6v7#restart-the-agent

> [7]: https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.send_log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
